SOURCE_URL: https://examsoft.com/solutions/id-verification/
VENDOR: ExamSoft | PRODUCT: ExamID
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-06-11
HTTP_STATUS: 200
RAW_HTML_SHA256: ab0095cd4ec40a3115c9a8f63bfb4d43739c1734dedfb1f2dce007b3fd46b72d
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ExamID | Online Student Identity Verification

Thank you for your interest in ExamSoft! Please click the icon below that best describes you:

I want to schedule a demo

I'm an exam-taker or student using Examplify

I'm a current ExamSoft client

Verify Exam-Taker Identity Efficiently

Digitally verify the identity of each exam-taker, from any location, to save time and minimise cost

Preventing exam-taker impersonation is a part of protecting assessment integrity. Unfortunately, traditional student identity verification systems are often inadequate and inefficient when administering large-scale or remote exams.

ExamID is an advanced digital security tool that makes the entire identity authentication process faster, easier, and more reliable. ExamID is the ideal solution for both in-class exams and remote exams, quickly verifying the identity of exam-takers—no matter the size of the class.

Download the ExamID brochure to learn more.

Two-step authentication process requires a student username/password and face matching analysis

Detects any exam-taker identification anomalies and provides documented evidence for faculty and administration review

Administer exams anywhere, without sacrificing exam integrity, and cut the time and cost of manual verification

Two-Step Authentication

ExamID uses a two-step authentication process—username/password and face matching analysis—making exam-taker impersonation virtually impossible.

Exam-Taker Control

Exam-takers set their own baseline image prior to exam day, allowing them to be in control of the photo to which they are compared before an assessment.

Streamline Large Scale Exams

Eliminate the need for extra staff and make large-scale exams fast, efficient, and more secure. ExamID removes the laborious process of student check-in traditionally required to verify identification for large-scale exams, while significantly reducing the possibility for human error.

Administer Remote Exams Securely

For exams administered remotely, security options typically include a live remote proctor, which drives up costs for the institution and feels invasive to exam-takers, or testing centers that are both expensive and impractical. ExamID’s two-step authentication process offers added security with facial verification technology, making sure the right students take the right exams—no matter where they are.

ExamID + ExamMonitor = End-to-End Remote Exam Security

ExamID can be combined with ExamMonitor for a holistic remote exam security solution that eliminates the need for live proctors. With ExamMonitor, assessment integrity is protected with a technology-enabled proctoring service that records all video and audio as well as screen activity throughout an exam.

Learn more about ExamMonitor.

See ExamSoft in Action

 Request a Demo

Contact us to see how you can protect your exam integrity with ExamID.